Skip to main content
NCBI Knowledge Graph
ABOUT
CHAT
ADVANCED QUERY
INTEGRATIONS
TEST: Currently optimized for genes and mutations related to glucose metabolism - Not for personal medical advice
Ask a Question

Type a natural language question about the knowledge graph. Your question will be translated to Cypher and executed against the graph database.

Which genes are located in the mitochondria?
What diseases are caused by variants in the HNF1A gene?
Show me all molecular activities enabled by the GCK gene
What genes are associated with MODY?
Which genes have the most disease-causing variants?
What pathways does the GCK gene participate in?
What proteins are produced by genes involved in insulin signaling?
Which genes have both deletions and single nucleotide variants?
What is the MANE Select protein for the GCK gene?
Which diseases have the most causal variants?
What genes enable kinase activity?
What biological processes are shared across MODY genes?
​
Q: What genes are associated with MODY?

Query Pipeline

7/7 steps · 6.0s

Found 6 genes associated with Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) in the query results. These gene–disease associations link specific genes to named MODY subtypes or related MODY syndromes.

Gene	Associated disease
CEL	Maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 8
GCK	Maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 2
HNF1A	Maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 3
HNF4A	Fanconi renotubular syndrome 4 with maturity-onset diabetes of the young
INS	Maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 10
KCNJ11	Maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 13
Notes
The results come from gene–disease association data in the graph queried via the disease name containing “maturity-onset diabetes.”
Relevant source types for these associations in this knowledge graph typically include resources such as NCBI Gene and MedGen.
Sources:
NCBI Gene
NCBI MedGen
6 results
5965ms
Helpful?

Generated Cypher

Graph Visualization

Raw Results (6)

NCBI Knowledge Graph - Proof of Concept